hello welcome to the package managers
weekly sink where we play the game over
what we did last week what they're
locked on and what we're going to do
next
you can brain I am Yost that's it that's
the intro cool yeahbsolutely link to the
quick parted in the ring you could put
your name on the attendees by Stephen
and yeah put your updates down and we'll
take notes that kind of thing so can I
get a look take companies thank you
ollie I will go first so yeah last week
there was sort of fun with NPM that
happens and there was a compilation on
Twitter where phaidor said why don't we
to a distributed version of NPM and some
people talked about some stuff and then
I kind of waited in because they were
saying oh yeah we tried I suppose very
slow I said well we're working on that
forgotten the conversation with cat who
is working on the NPM CLI she suggested
adding support for ipfs as a extension
of good day which I tried to do earlier
in the year but share some pointers
house today so but did it I know as a PR
open against for code which should I
don't even know if I'm pronouncing this
thing properly pronates Portuguese so I
don't know yeah so I keep calling it but
good day and explain that later but yeah
anyway so that pay I went in I was cool
hopefully they might merge it and then
we were over my PFS and I can testicle
in NPM which can be a pretty big win
yeah cool so then I also try to look at
some bugs in MPI PFS
France of the problems with em FS so
fixing them and then that's gonna be me
for that week and I'll probably do more
interactive as next week I'm not up to
anything
that is me and is not yet would anybody
else like to give an update there's
ongoing just can you meet there's
ongoing discussions about what a npm on
ipfs actually look like if there's
nothing else on the agenda for this
meeting be good to get people's thoughts
on that one of the one of the most
boring questions but also fundamental to
how we start this seems to be should it
be a specific that so that the the
backstory is a desktop app seems like a
neat way of tricking people into running
along and running a demon in the
background so encourage encouraging it's
the Trojan horse by which we encourage
co-hosting and all the good behaviors
that we want to see right now if all
badges for you are the best async
reholster
right now if you run npm ipfs - ampion
you get a shortened over to chase ipfs
in process daemon that fetches so it
basically encourages you to behave like
a leech when you probably came to this
project hoping to not do that if you're
a kind of the gamete Arian co-host o
chances are you were hoping to do some
co-hosting so then the thought was a
desktop app similar to where ipfs
desktop has ended up running in your
menu bar or task tray that just kind of
gives you a quick way to see like basic
stats on NPM play this is something that
you don't get from NPM today so just
knowing from my usage which modules I
depend on regularly and that could also
surface like interesting things in your
subtree and then also thing able to
demonstrate back like you've downloaded
these modules a million times and you've
rehearsed like you've given back-end
copies of the
for example um as a way of encouraging
the behavior we were hoping to see Eden
is that the Halfhand yeah I yes there is
a conversation remember hearing like a
number of months ago basically this is
that's sort of the idea people are gonna
think of which is yeah let's looks
bundle in a demon having a desktop app
that does our thing and then you end up
with like 10 demons running on your
machine that are all just running
occupies nodes yes and then there's some
supposed to be some lib p2p demon
progress that's supposed to make this
not make you run ten nodes at once I'm
not sure what the progress on that is
but I think that that's ongoing Stephen
might have more info yes these things
are running mdns right so you can just
do an EM DNS query for my PFS daemon
which is what I'm running on the local
machine connected up instead of like
spinning up a new one it is emptiness
working across yesterday and go almost
okay as I know like in Goa definitely
not following this back so we're aware I
think there's a peer that has been
working on today actually that sorts out
any sort of interest I think there's
there was like Jake ASO gonna skate to
where the puck was gonna be and then the
work not landing and God if that's for
longer than expected so now he's made a
compatibility Shin so they all work
either way cuz there's a there was some
discussion to confess but I can't
remember what that was I mean that
cherry vest is now not supporting this
Becky will do both support this
background not support the smoke
depending on who you need to talk to was
it a bit her also issues around like
yeah yeah so about what Aidan has
touched on is the first like thing up
like an NPM when I open this app so my
gut feeling was my specific app would be
more compelling to the large audience of
NPM users and I had some pushback on
that from various people they were like
why not bolt it into IP this desktop
because we've already got some users on
this desktop and don't you don't want to
have multiple demons running um and my
feeling was that that wasn't the right
criteria to judge the decision on
Stephen so what if we had an app store
well indeed so this was this was kind of
one's original dream for the web UI and
the desktop app was that it would also
become a kind of like an app store is
one way of describing it another is like
a shell yeah it's like you know we I
guess that's what provides the services
that ipfs apps could use it's certainly
a plausible direction my gut feeling was
as we haven't done that yet and we'd
like to achieve the immediate goal of
more users on NPM on a quest what I'd
like what I'd like to do is like
consider NPM when I possess the app as a
separate entity and then see where the
commonality is and then have a view to
converging it into an app store in the
future
so you know newbie so forgive me if I'm
making sort of silly assumptions but um
I mean you're talking about sort of
scrapping your way into being a FS user
in many different ways and that might
just be like oh you know I've used this
the whole package manager' others like
oh I've been using these I've been using
ifs and NPM and this is great and so let
me look at using this maybe not even
sort of an app store metaphor the
metaphor of just like a bunch of
building blocks so that no matter what
your starting point is that you come in
on you can then add more things to it to
be more more full function function I
give this world II so the idea being
that are facing you certain Lego bricks
and you add more as you need to become
more sophisticated as a user as you go
along but but in doing so you never have
to relearn the interface for the first
thing that you learned how to do so he
came in just using this as an
alternative to regular NPM that
experience even as you become like I
guess power user would be exactly the
same thing the long-term make sense yes
makes sense and again it's like it would
be nice to have enough pieces to play
with the form of those Lego blocks
really obviously we're not gonna get
that right off because we don't even
know what the different sizes of Lego
blocks are going to be but even just
from an architectural approach in
general for keeping that in the back of
mind I think would go a long way so sure
but it's interesting because every time
you have this conversation it's like ah
lots of the GUI team developers were
initially like no no make it part of
desktop and it's like and their fear was
like multiple demons and that was the
first moment Aiden said demons so I
think it'd be worth unpacking that
feeling a bit further there's something
very different from you're just having a
demon sort of sitting around and maybe
manifesting itself and like a like a
menu bar icon or something versus a full
function app itself and
that sort of part of the whole lego
metaphor you know at what point is the
complexity of the number of things
you've signed up for necessitate that
you actually need a separate app which
is an interesting discussion and you
know I can certainly sort of noodle over
you sure we element of stuff but Malthus
themselves in both ways I mean I'm just
like even looking at new zoom icon you
know and how deep you want to go into
actually having a zoom client sitting on
your machine um I'm sure that could be a
separate discussion but I don't want to
go too deep into that now unless you
want to it's I mean I haven't bombed out
which direction we're gonna go yet so I
saw how cool they did yeah I just wanted
to clarify it
I think the desktop like having an
installed thing makes sense because from
like a user experience thing it's like
this is it this feels like a different
thing but from a technical side we
should make sure there's a way to not
have not have to run another demon right
in the same way that if you run multiple
things that I'll use fuse you don't need
to have like 30 fuse installations
there's like one fuse installation you
can you can do this with the demons too
so IP FS desktop already uses IP FSD CTM
the oculus demon controller library that
if it discovers that you've got and i
think that's already running it'll just
defer to the API that's available and if
not it'll start one which is cool so
that's the kind of model that I was
imagining but then there's this kind of
broader question of like actually should
be totally legit for like 10 apps on
your system to spawn their own IP those
demons with their own like cartooned
configs like maybe you want a specific
set of bootstrap nodes for this specific
act like just caps specific swarm seems
like a reasonable a reasonable thing
like I would want that ipfs is very
configurable so the idea that you could
funnel every app through one IP this
demon seems sketchy
[Music]
wouldn't you wouldn't you end up with
like multiple you know say multiple
people are all hitting the same
bootstrap nodes because they're the
default since now you have like eight
connections to the same bootstrap node
so this is where we get into things like
a Liberty Damon and I got the HT Damon
like ideally maybe even a Damon dated a
man for like he'll be have these
separate like four components system
services and then you can have whatever
you want like you can even build - your
applications like but that's far off
it felt it felt like there was more
headnotes at this stage from like
something we might deliver in the next
three months it felt like the group here
present limp slightly towards a npm on
like your best app is that fair
assessment because that would help me
destroyed a thing
I think anything that reduces the scope
of the thing is a good idea nice animal
food
I mean waters hidden rather than expose
his emotional state come back walk
I didn't mean that as a no I think
that's a reasonable thing to do I hope
it works really excellent and positive
thing interest as well random if other
people have thoughts of Olympian okay so
that would be great to hear but I don't
want to chew out the whole cool anyone
else got anything else they want to
discuss about package manager yes I I
had a question which is I saw the the
amazing video of attempting to run IPs
things and having a wait around for
really long time as much appreciated um
there I guess I want to know what how
much faster it needs to be and like what
the use cases are in this in the sense
of the lower down you go in like the
manifest tree where the IPS references
are it's like each package then you have
to be much faster if it's higher up the
tree you can be much slower because
you're making less requests and I
thought is for the first you know over
the next corner for the next couple of
apps like how far we're in the tree do
you want to put the IP Anastos entries I
think we wouldn't necessarily have any
control over the way entries go because
people will just publish their modules
to say with the dependencies of
published over IP owners and would just
be a thing and then when you install
your dependencies some differences in
the tree might come via IP enesta some
might come for HTTP so really as to be
as fast as possible
I mean IPS as opposed to ipfs not as
opposed to HTTP which things so they're
the PR but I submitted to Paco T had two
ways of putting down that
so you either user CID can I give us the
idea in which case you're basically
linking to a toggle so you don't get any
version resolution of that and then the
IPS name I was using links to a package
manifest or apartment
which contains all the available
versions which then have C IDs or HTTP
links to the tables and so so the user
would do either and then all the
dependencies would do either actually
it's hard to we would have no control
potential there so the package level is
what you're looking at then yeah all the
individual package authors which decide
how they want to you know say how the
dependencies should be consumed and then
you would depend on them and then people
yeah okay thanks
that sounds like that bottom down out
really fast
so um since I got called out once
already and I'm guessing you guys are
kind of recruiting for things that could
hypothetically maybe be okay our
material or something one of the things
that I would really love to turn into an
ask and kind of recruit a bunch of other
people's thoughts about is what we could
hypothetically get in the long run out
of package manager designs which would
be composable in a way that's not right
now so for example I want to work on a
bunch of reproducible builds stuff and
so the number one thing that's going to
be important to me if I want to consume
stuff that comes from the beautiful
union of ipfs and package managers is
I'm going to want to have some
references into existing package
managers that I can somehow compose into
my reproducible builds work and
currently that's an incredibly hard
thing because it's basically refer to
NPM on the network and god help you
whatever happens right and so so I want
em PMO and ipfs to succeed of course but
also I want to like have some
understanding of how that's going to you
how I might dream of interfacing that in
the future to be way dad's opinion so we
had a lot of discussions are instant
cookers of G X or basically we talked
about was using NPM cargill whatever to
extract the set of dependencies and
you've dumped them to lock file and it's
locked file describes like how to
actually pull these pieces together so
like that it means that you aren't
entire like you are digging too deep
into the Refn system fertilized feed
still have 3p disability and it also
looks like cross back to Twitter very
like if you look at if you look through
with Piggy's design especially about
this like I talked about having like a
special practice Jason file it would say
look the tight move there's the
namespace for different packages I can't
run that he does this but you should
look through the she's read a lot of
different ways there's some things I can
think
packages and then there's like if you
try to think about doing this
ecosystemic clean well it's going to
allow me to like keep building taller
pyramid on top of smaller blocks and
individual packages then I think how
will you come down somewhere
our goal was mostly to not kill the
pyramid go to the monolithic rheticus or
the top-down route we're like I have a
package and then like I decided okay
this is now I want to declare like this
package is using a dresser with me and
they have locked everything plates this
means I don't have like I don't take
evidence in trying to get into the
system I just like figure out whatever
which burns everything I should use lock
that down and then I have like plugins
with every single different like package
manager that Windows uses so whenever I
do this bill and it pulling at the right
versus burning go through the right way
just to clarify mr. cool you anglia like
defining obld structures that represent
package managers that we should be
talking about now so that in the
breacher you have structured merkel
native data but also just like the
holistic conversation like i think
especially in as much as if we're
talking about
okay ours like trying to know the thing
to make it a goal to have like to carry
on some more of these discussions and
like maybe have some documents like
where we think it could go different
like could go under as a enormous
brained on my map thing which I can
figure out a link for which has a lot of
kind of
[Music]
he is definitely exploring that idea in
his spare cycles
you should I know you've already spoken
to them about it but you should keep
talking about it in terms of like the q2
okay our asks I stuck a Lincoln green
cap to the current draft okay are the
based around getting existing package
managers to adopt ipfs and trying to
support the package money you maintain
is however possible it's coming that's
come into focus
- um so just yeah I'll post that link to
the big just transferring it to the
bigger screen oMG this would benefit
from some kind of video walkthrough from
entering his bed maybe next week mr.
cool that's what happens when you when
you're sick you volunteered
do we have anything else to talk about
in this session is that I can grab some
questions I'm trying to how deep do you
think the UH like I guess the time and
depth of of a set of package
dependencies do we want to be able to
resolve over IP NS just sort of trying
to target like how fast it needs to be
um Steven and some other folks are
interested in like how do we maybe have
like a semi centralized thing to help IP
NS be a little faster and the near term
and the question is like how fast do we
need that to be and how centralized we
need to make it to do that I think it
needs to be as far as HTTP little
Iceland festival people are using right
now so if the partner manager maintain
is introducing this cooling technology
what is fundamentally invisible to the
average user I think it has very
difficult questions to answer the thing
is as long as there's only one maintain
as long as there's only one place to get
the data from it has to be slower
because you're adding a level of
indirection right instead of talking
directly to the guy with the data you
talk to someone who tells you to talk to
someone else with the data so it the
latency has to be longer um and the
question is like what's acceptable given
that in the near term I don't see like
80 people running you know full NPM
repositories that we're gonna
simultaneously be downloading from Danny
we're gonna you know we stand ups and
infrastructure the house because of
things you know like club from that kind
of thing you come from clubs like like
creating ipfs kind of nodes on there as
part of their CDN
but anything is always gonna be the case
that you know there's only a few people
in the world had the thing that you're
looking for so I'm not always but in the
short term like you know by q2 that's I
think that's fair
so the question how fast does it need to
be like ah like for instance I would be
I would be okay
saying you know let's bring our penis to
like um you know a pretty reasonable
time of just whatever it takes to
resolve a peer ID on the network that's
how long it will take and we'll make it
pretty fast after that which is much
faster than it is currently
because right now you need a lot of
requests on the DHT however that's not
fast enough if you want to if you want
to pull down you know a ten depth
dependency tree and like under a minute
like this that's probably not going to
happen so you can say well maybe we'll
use like loopy appease rendezvous but
that's not really built yet
so yeah
Olly I guess it sounds like the it's a
continuum sort of question has anyone
given you a good answer to this because
I heard you ask it a few times and
imagine everyone's answer is as fast as
it can be
please yeah that's right so this is the
thing no one's really given me an answer
me and Hugo have each put let's get my
penis under ten seconds on our okay ours
and we're the ones currently writing
stuff and Stephen on the ipfs okay ours
said make it under a second and that's
an order of magnitude Stevens much
better but that requires doing you know
saying alright we're gonna use DNS we're
gonna use like some other centralization
I don't know why not use DNS why not use
DNS because the it's a combination of
like it's centralized and not super
built for the type of validation we
would be looking for it'll be fast like
fast
but like so on rendezvous servers so for
what it's worth I can bring up an
example from a package manager community
that's quite recent the geeks project
while being quite fans of the potential
decentralization have also been in a lot
of talks recently with them I forget the
exact title of the group software
heritage or something like this is a
very archival oriented project and they
are centralized and I have a latency
that gets done and the geeks people
are happy to work with that so I think
that's a trade off that's certainly not
like to consider part of this is also
like q2 versus q3 or q4 so like I think
live p2p rendezvous will help it's
currently a p1 okay are that they have
for this quarter and I don't know what
that means I don't know if that means
that there's a 60% chance of it getting
finished the last day of the quarter or
a hundred percent chance or a twelve
percent chance I tomb of the total lack
of ambiguity in okrs so if we if it's
something we we need then either means
we need to do DNS things or I need to
put time into helping look the appeal
with rendezvous what we need to put more
pressure on them or we have to say well
it's okay we'll do it next quarter as
long as it's done by then that's okay
and like that's the intermediate space
where I don't really know what we need
it's definitely something that we need
and no order of magnitude things is a
great thing to shoot for and even if we
don't quite make it as long as we've got
some some kind of story that we can tell
about how we're going to make it in q3
or q4 then that would be great it feels
like the fewer unknowns with the dns
version of this story and that it has a
centralization trade-off but it it can
be a crutch that we use to pushes
forwards I think being massively like
numerous orders of magnitude slower it's
going to really
rest for a long time I don't know if the
specific working or to get the DNS trick
working but it seems to be the like this
can this can boost us through the next
couple years
great perhaps like the rendezvous is
needed for other service discoveries
anyway it doesn't support other types of
like it wouldn't support multi writer I
can us but the rendezvous would it's
yeah and and in any event even like the
basic changes we're gonna make are gonna
also improve by one order of magnitude
what IPS is doing question is do we need
to this quarter or is like one
sufficient for now right like if you
brought brought it down from like you
know over up from like a minute or two
to like five to ten seconds would that
be enough or is that still too slow
because no one wants to wait five
seconds for a web page to load I think
if he can bring it from a minute down to
five seconds that would be great but it
would be an amazing result for QT and
then 53 he goes from 5 seconds to once I
don't think that's the trade-off
I think the DNS okay maybe I'm just
poking up her yes yes is probably even
lower than that although it's all sort
of predicated on then you hit the DHT
again to do ipfs so even if your DNS
thing is really fast you're still gonna
get hit up on the DHT again so I'm not
sure how much faster it's like you look
your goal is to make my DNS fast no my
goal is to make everything as fast as it
needs to be without accumulating too
much technical debt I don't see a well
implemented DNS the trick is technical
debt
it ends up being so it ends up being
technical debt because there's a
discussion that no one has been ready to
have yet which is if you have two
disjoint networks where you can store IP
NS records then if you go into a web
browser and you type an IPS colon slash
slash on on name where does it take you
to which of the two disjoint networks do
you look for your information you look
at both what if one of them has a
different record than the other one
which one do you show right now pub/sub
is not disjoint from the DHT because it
falls back on the DHT so we haven't had
to ask that question as soon as we
implement either pub/sub only which is
what I'm working on or DNS which I think
Hugo's working on well that's a problem
we're gonna come across and the more of
these things we add the more times we
run into that problem so in a sense it
is a type of technical debt that's kind
of check yeah okay no that was really
helpful let's not let that before it
does make sense if he yep I still feel
like the disjoint networks he whilst a
terrifying edge case is less problematic
than no one committing to using IP FS
because it's like ya know I'm that we
need we need this this needs to get done
right I guess the question is like if if
rendevouz gonna give us the same thing
that dns is gonna do but it's gonna take
us an extra two quarters to get there
do we need an extra network that we need
we're gonna need to worry about longer
terms I don't know maybe we're okay we
tell people it's experimental and if we
decide to kill it off in a year from now
than like that's fine too right I don't
know that's not really my those things
are sort of not my call I guess for
whatever it's worth I'd say plus ones
you like and make it as fast as possible
as soon as possible obviously that's the
optimization gradient that you want to
climb and we would probably trust you to
choose how to do it
package management always has the
ability as a use case to it's it's a
question that is in scope for how to
pursue a package management is actually
how to distribute updates and so like
within the gamut of options that we can
choose to engage with in package
management discussions is not even
distributing updates right like we can
just distribute static indices and make
any sort of like updating system
something else we could make a
definition of a package manager that
just distributes the update route patch
over HTTP and it's totally centralized
and just walk out right
whether that's whether or not that's a
good idea is like a totally different
question but it's it's within the gamut
I think we could do so I don't know
that's that's just my opinion but I'd
say like to do the best you can in like
this application will do what I can with
what can be done my understanding is
correct me if I'm wrong please the that
NPM over IP FS uh does you basically
just go all the way up to the root
levels like the only new IP NS for sort
of this global manifest and then you
figure it out using C IDs from there
it's like that's like a very low request
an IPS right because you don't need to
make an resolution the the service I
just over campaign have been beyond my
PFS I what serving Registry of Justice
tires or chainsaw mojo activist so
there's no real like DNS at all because
there's no DHT in that really okay I
guess yeah in theory you could replace
the the HTTP registry with a single IP
NS manifests and like that would be
pretty fast because you went in five
seconds for that like who cares
that was the initial design goal but
then it just didn't work who's just an
already see yes a bunch of smokin
marriages introduced but the intention
is very much to get rid of all the smoke
and mirrors at some point in the very
near future so I have experience with
this from the DAT protocol they stored
on that protocol and they have to
resolution mechanisms they're the DNS
and there's a BitTorrent DHT reality is
because they they have they race them
both against each other the the DNS one
always wins
because McIntosh Matias and the two
servers and there's not that much
traffic on the Deaf network it's sort of
small well so the DA the DNS always wins
so as a consequence there's DHT was just
completely broken for like six months
and nobody noticed so I'm sort of
wondering if we do the racing thing it
might actually make sense did like do
DNS but build like a one-second delay
into it and give the DHT a chance to
actually like it we can make the DHT
faster than DNA like rendezvous or
something like that like a truly
distributed thing resolved faster than
earth intentionally hobbled DNS that
might be the thing to do then it gives
us a far to try this like if we can make
this the distributed resolution
protocols resolve faster than then one
second then they win system idea
would you really do that I don't know
everybody waiting one second that's a
lot to ask much in four deeply nested
definitive
but the your experience of seeing this
and the bat ecosystem is he's
interesting they went they went the DNS
Rev and as it had any negative but
nobody knows that there's this T DNS
servers they're like the users like you
mean speak your browser you don't know
that
but it they've gone down because it was
just like Matthias running them and
they've gone down for like eight months
for eight hours and basically nobody
nothing was working on that
like the whole system was down and
nobody really knew everybody just
assumed that their local software was
broken but was actually does actually
for a decentralized network there's a
centralized component so yeah so I I I
think like long term we want to have
that decentralized we don't have you
know somebody forgot to pay the Amazon
bill or something and it all of a sudden
I give that doesn't work anymore right
also from a semi practical perspective
we so they both have like the sort of
goal of being able to work like offline
and stuff and also that when we give
demos the Internet is always terrible
and we're basically offline anyway so it
is always a little bit embarrassing to
have like a demo like our stuff works
offline and the Internet's not working
in as a result of demo it's not working
because then because then it's obvious
something has gone wrong
so I think yeah they're right there are
two battles yeah like it's we should
definitely make sure that ipfs works
offline we'll wins but if it is as slow
as the DHT and the snow glows white
venice but it was you will tolerate that
in a zero order centralized Network
environment but you won't tolerate it
when every other website isn't raised
and super fast and the CDN and optimize
so I see the battle that we need to make
sure that I could this is
performin as much as possible we're a
centralized option is available and not
unreasonable to lean on and make sure
that we don't break things for offline
that it does work yeah I'm hoping that
once we have some of the test live stuff
up and running we can see how fast these
things are under we'll call it ideal DHT
conditions where you don't have like a
million broken links of people behind
max just select we know what we're
dealing with yep
I'm hoping that maybe that's desktop is
a viable thing and it comes yeah with
the you know behaviour DHT client flag
by default slowly over time we might get
a few fewer terrible DHT participants
but yeah that's just an aside
well over time no thankfully the team
meetings captain that's myself but which
is anybody having this book shall we
draw this to a close
[Music]
cool I'm gonna stop recording thank you
very much I don't know we'll see you all
next week